---
layout: post
title:      " "Why I decided to study software engineering". "
date:       2020-08-24 00:10:36 +0000
permalink:  why_i_decided_to_study_software_engineering
---


I'm 33 years old. I've been working since I was 16. I've worked on fishing boats in Alaska on the Bering Sea. I've worked on oil rigs in Bakersfield, California where the temperatures in the summer can reach 110-115 degrees. And for the past ten years, I've been a welder/fabricator. I've done some of the hardest jobs on the planet, and I love the life lessons and skills those jobs have provided me, but I was never truly in love with what I did for a living. Sure it paid the bills, but there was no excitement for me. Every morning getting up for work, it was more of a "let's get through the day" kind of mentality. Ever since I was little, tech has always excited me, whether it be video games, computers, phones, etc. So I thought to myself, "Why dont you try to get a job in tech, that way you can do something that you love instead of just trying to pay the bills?" So I tried out a few free coding courses online and fell in love. Just the idea of me being able to build a program, an app, or even a video game gave me the excitement that I had been searching for. So then I had to wait a year or so until the timing was right because I am married and have responsibilities. But last year my wife graduated school to become a court reporter and then was offered a job in the Washington, D.C. area. So we picked up everything and moved across the country from California. I started thinking to myself, "This is it. This is my opportunity to go back to school and learn something that excites me." So I started doing research on which schools were the best, and I saw nothing but great reviews about Flatiron. So I set up my admissions meeting and haven't looked back since. Just after a week in the course and I already know that I'm going to look back one day and say that this was the best decision I've ever made (besides marrying my wife of course lol). So that's it. That's why I decided to study software enginnering. And I couldn't be more excited about the journey I'm about to go on! 
